Live at King FM, we're here with the Seattle Welsh Choir led by Richard Lind at the piano Bill Moore.
And they have a program coming up this Sunday, 2.30 at the Green Lake United Methodist Church,
and then Wednesday a week, a benefit for Children's Hospital.
We're going to hear some selections from that program tonight, live here at King FM.
My dear, let me guide you through the world, And you shall know it, and I'll tell you now.
I try knowing the plans, but none have the will, For I am only a guide for thee.
My dear, let them tell you, my God, you can hear, My dear, let them out, let them pray to you, My dear.
My dear, let the north yon, the south yon, My seren, the devil, and this proud man,
My dear, let me guide you through the world, And you shall know it, and I'll tell you now.
My dear, let them tell you, my God, you can hear, My dear, let them out, let them pray to you, My dear.
My dear, let thy Joseph, my dear, let thy Mark, My dear, let the wind, and the rain, and the dark,
My dear, let the government, and the press, and the peace, And the power, and the power, and the will, and the will of thee.
My dear, let them tell you, my God, you can hear, My dear, let their heart, and their will pray to you, My dear.
Oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo.
A big and loud, a big, a loud, so loud, so loud,
And you shall know the healing, the healing of all my heart.
Oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo.
Oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo.
God, the end of all the world, we've gone through, we've gone through, we've gone through, we've gone through,
And now we're going to be.
Oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo.
For a return we are, for a return we are,
Now and for ever, and for ever and ever.
Years and years ago, when I was a boy,
When we sang and wallowed all night and day,
In caves that smelt like Sunday afternoons,
In damp front farmhouse pallets,
And we chased the English, the bears,
And before the motor car, before the wheel,
Before the Duchess faced horse,
When we rode the daft and happy hills bareback,
It snowed and snowed.
Snow that swam and drifted out of the arms and hands of bodies of trees,
Snow that grew overnight on the roofs of the houses,
Like a pure and grandfather moss,
Minutely white, ivy the walls,
And settled like a dumb thunderstorm of white-tone Christmas cards.
Oh, one Christmas was so like another,
That I can never remember whether it snowed for six days and six nights when I was twelve,
Or whether it snowed for twelve days and twelve nights when I was six.
Mistletoe howled from the gas brackets in all the front parlours.
There were sherry and walnuts and bottled beer and crackers by the dessert spoons,
And cats in their furibolds watched the fires,
And high-heaped fire spat, all ready for the chestnuts and the melon pokers.
Uncles sat in the front parlours without their collars,
Trying their new cigars, holding them judiciously at arm's length,
Returning them to their mouths, then holding them out again as though waiting for the explosion.
And a few small aunts, not wanted in the kitchen, or anywhere else for that matter,
Sat on the very edges of their chairs, poised and brittle,
Afraid to break like faded cups and saucers.
We are not our ever-dislike health,
When we are sad in our death-loving health,
Or when our present is in the fire,
For so time never our well-required.
Monachor lead honour high, our bow young
O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave,
I remember that we went singing carols once,
when there wasn't the shaving of a moon to light the flying streets.
At the end of a long road was a drive that led to a large house,
and we stumbled up the darkness of the drive that night,
each one of us afraid, each one holding a stone in his hand, in case,
and all of us too brave to say a word.
The wind through the trees made noises as of old and unpleasant,
and maybe web-footed men, freezing in caves.
We reached the black bulk of the house.
What shall we give them? Hark the herald?
No, Jack said, good King Wenceslas.
I'll count three.
One, two, three, and we began to sing.
Our voices high and seemingly distant in the snow-felted darkness,
round the house that was occupied by nobody we knew.
We stood close together near the dark door.
Good King Wenceslas looked out on the feast of Stephen,
and then a small dry voice, like the voice of someone who's not spoken for a long time,
joined our singing.
A small dry eggshell voice from the other side of the door,
a small dry voice through the keyhole.
And when we stopped running, we were outside our house.
The front room was lovely. Balloons floated, and everything was good again.
Perhaps it was a ghost, Jim said.
Perhaps it was trolls, Dam said, who was always reading.
Let's go in and see if there's any jelly left, Jack said.
And we did that.
B superman
We are Seagulls, Seagulls, Seagulls.
Where the whispers of the sea,
Keep the eagles unwavering.
We are Seagulls, Seagulls, Seagulls.
Where the whispers of the sea,
Keep the eagles unwavering.
Followed by a song,
Through the early morning.
Free the good men from harm,
On it down the floor.
Alleluia, free them,
Alleluia, Lord.
God of high above,
You are our Savior, Lord.
Ever, ever,
I'll die a thousand years.
Here and here and there,
God, be there, and here.
God of high above,
You make our mighty trees.
We harbor your God, we hope,
Yes, we pray.
God, be there, and here.
God of high above,
You make our mighty trees.
We harbor your God, we hope,
Yes, we pray.
God of high above,
You make our mighty trees.
We harbor your God, we hope,
Yes, we pray.
God of high above,
You make our mighty trees.
We harbor your God, we hope,
Yes, we pray.
God of high above,
You make our mighty trees.
Always on Christmas night there was music.
An uncle played the fiddle, a cousin sang cherry-ripe,
an uncle sang Drake's drum. It was very warm in the little house.
Auntie Hannah, who had got on to the parsnip wine,
sang a song about bleeding hearts and death.
And then another in which she said her heart was like a bird's nest.
And then everybody laughed again.
And then I went to bed.
Looking through my bedroom window, out into the moonlight,
and the unending smoke-colored snow,
I could see the lights in the windows of all the other houses on our hill,
and hear the music rising from them
up the long, steadily falling night.
I turned the gas down. I got into bed.
I said some words to the close and holy darkness.
And then I slept.
The Christmas Song
Christmas music
Far where no
Stunt like a nose
See the traffic
See the traffic flow alive
Far like
Far like green
Far like green eye on
Far like green eye on the fly
Where let them pacify you?
The Seattle Welsh Choir Live here at King FM.
The direction of Richard Lind with Bill Moore at the piano.
A selection from their concert of Welsh Christmas music.
With some readings from Dylan Thomas, The Child's Christmas in Wales.
You can enjoy this this Sunday, 2.30 at the Green Lake United Methodist Church.
That's the small castle-looking church on the south side of Green Lake.
Or on the 13th, Wednesday night, at 7.30 at the Ballard High School Auditorium.
That program would benefit for Children's Hospital.
The information line is 425-488-7288.
Richard Lind and Alan Upshaw, welcome to King FM.
Thank you. Thank you.
It's great to have you here tonight. This sounds like a wonderful concert.
It's a wonderful program.
We've had fun working on it.
It's come together real well.
We're all just thrilled to be able to do it.
Does it flow through like this for the whole program?
Yes, we're going to try to do that.
Keep that going, that kind of flow.
What's the history of the Seattle Welsh Choir?
It was formed in 1984.
It actually grew out of the Seattle Welsh Language Group.
The language group wanted something to practice the diction of the Welsh music and the Welsh words.
So they formed a choir and started singing.
And it's grown. I think the original membership was about 12.
We're up to 35 now.
Well, that's wonderful.
How often do you rehearse?
Every week, Wednesday night, 7.30, Lake City Presbyterian Church.
And who's the coach for the language?
That's a good question because there are several.
And they're all dialect different.
I was going to say, do they all agree?
No, they don't all agree.
We have a consensus.
Where does the Welsh language come from?
Do we know?
It's roots?
It's the oldest living language in Europe.
The Welsh language is still alive in Wales.
About 20% of the population speak it back in Wales.
And that number is growing.
And it's, excuse me, I'm not a Welsh language expert, but it's very old.
It comes out of what's called the Brythonic tree of languages.
Gaelic comes out of the same tree.
The Irish and the Scottish came, but they emerged at different times.
But Welsh is the oldest one that's still spoken as a language.
And it seems that the Welsh people claim most of the consonants.
There's one or two vowels.
When the consonants join together into two Ds and two Ls, it becomes difficult.
Well, that's really amazing.
Anything else you want to add about the concert or about the Welsh choir?
Except that the second concert is a benefit for the Children's Hospital.
We decided this is the first year we've done two concerts around Christmas.
We usually just do one moving around different parts of town.
But this year we thought we'd see if we can benefit a local charity.
So we have good support from the Children's Hospital,
who's been advertising and pushing it for us as well.
So Ballard High School on Wednesday the 13th at 7.30 would be a good time to come and listen.
But of course you can always come to both concerts.
That's what I was going to say. Come on Sunday at 2.30 and listen to that.
Sunday is a benefit for the choir and Wednesday is a benefit for the Children's Hospital.
Well, what's going to happen is people will come on Sunday, they'll like it so much they want to come here.
They will bring their friends to the second one.
Well, I sure want to thank you all for being here.
I'll recap once again. This Sunday at 2.30 Green Lake Methodist Church, 2.30 this Sunday.
And then Wednesday next, that's the 13th at 7.30 at Ballard High School auditorium.
That's the benefit for children.
The phone number and area code 425-488-7288. That's 488-7288.
I want to thank Richard Lynn, director, Alan Upshaw for enlightening us about many things.
And Bill Moore at the piano.
But to all of the Seattle Welsh Choir, thank you for being here tonight.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome, I will.
Thank you. I think.
You're listening to Live by George on King FM.